<!-- ---  
title: Creative Coding II
author: Angela Brennecke
affiliation: Film University Babelsberg KONRAD WOLF
date: Summer term 20
---   -->
**Creative Coding II - Summerterm 20**

Prof. Dr. Angela Brennecke | a.brennecke@filmuniversitaet.de | Film University Babelsberg *KONRAD WOLF*


# Assignments

_Meaningful_ bullet points are sufficient to answer the questions - if necessary.

### 1 OOP - SineCircle Object | was 3 pts -> to be 1 or 2 pts -> to be discussed

Read the script on object-oriented programming. Now based on what you have read and understood so far, your job will be to refactor the coding example 01_sine_oop so that it uses a SineCircle object inside of the ofApp. In order to achieve this, follow these steps:

- Create a header file and a definition file for the sineCircle class.
- Add both files to your ofApp project, i.e., put the into the src folder of 01_sine_oop and add them to the project in your IDE.
- Add a class specification to the header file.
- In the header file, declare all member variables and member functions that you need to describe your sineCircle - or to achieve the same rendering as in this original version.
- In the definition file, define the functions that you have declared.
- Take care of including the header files that you need.

Good luck!!

### 2 OOP - Constructors | was 2 pts -> to be 1 pt -> to be discussed

As you know, the default ofApp code does not provide any constructors. Nevertheless, the ofApp object is constructed without any problem. 

- First question: Why?

Now, please create a default ofApp sketch with the ProjectGenerator. Review the main function. Inside of main, the graphics context is setup before the ofApp object is created. In the function call "ofSetupOpenGL", you can specify the window size. Although you can access the window size in the ofApp through calls to ofGetWindowWidth() and ofGetWindowHeight(), the design of the ofApp could be improved by directly handing over the window size parameters. 

- Create a user-defined constructor in the ofApp that takes the window width and window height arguments as function parameters.
- Create corresponding member variables in ofApp that store the window paramters in the ofApp object.
- Change the construction in the main function such that you hand over the window parameters to the ofApp object directly as part of the object construction.
- How could you ensure that only your specific user-defined constructor is going to be called? Remember that the default constructor is being generated by the compiler automatically if it does not exist.

### 3 OOP - Refactoring | 6 pts

This task is quite complex and is comprised of several learning objectives: 

- Code review and code refactoring
- Getting to know and using std::vector
- Understanding alpha blending
- Learning about images in openFrameworks

Checkout the coding example 03\_screen\_grab. Create the solution files and build the ofApp. Understand what is happening in the application and understand how the application was implemented.

#### 3.1 Review and refactor

Review and understand the code. Try to refactor it if you think this is necessary. To do so, add useful functions that help improve the readability. Review this article on [levels of abstraction](https://www.fluentcpp.com/2016/12/15/respect-levels-of-abstraction/) and incorporate the aspects where possible - if necessary!

Review the Ball class. Introduce the glm::vec2 type to represent ball positions. See [this explanation](https://github.com/tyhenry/dt_openframeworks_2018/tree/master/week03) "Week 3 - Graphics: Vectors and Coordinates" for more details. 

Add a user-defined constructor that allows you to specify the Ball's color value as r,g,b directly.

#### 3.2 std::vector

The Ball class uses the std::vector data type to store several ball objects. Review how this is done and check the links in the script for more details on the C++ STL and the std::vector type. Do a little research on range-based for loops in C++. What does that mean and how do they work?

#### 3.3 Alpha blending

Review and fully understand the draw() function in the ofApp object. Note down, what is happening? 

In the draw() function, alpha blending is applied to change the visualization. Therefore, two alpha values are manipulated. What exactly is done here? How could you apply this approach to the bonus questions from the previous assignment (2)? 

Feel free to implement your custom sine-wave example together with the original one and blend between both versions.

#### 3.4 Images and Screengrab

Review the application. What exactly do you recognize? Understand what kind of images are being generated. Therefore, save the screenshots that are being generated as well as the resized version of the screenshots to disk. Use this function:

```cpp
ofImage myImage;

myImage.grabScreen(0,0,ofGetWidth(),ofGetHeight());
myImage.save("screen.png"); // the image will be saved to the bin/data folder 

```
Save the images as *.png as well as *.jpg. What do you recognize?

In order to get a clear picture, unless you have understood it right away, create 6 balls: a red, a green, a blue, a yellow, a cyan, and a magenta ball. Review the application and the screenshots. What is happening?

### 4 OOP - Easy Easing Animation | 2 pts

Checkout the coding example 04\_easing. Create the solution files and build the ofApp. Understand what is happening in the application and understand how the application was implemented. How can you change the balls such that they follow the mouse position? 

See [this explanation](https://github.com/tyhenry/dt_openframeworks_2018/tree/master/week03) "Week 3 - Interpolation" for more details. 

If you have time left - can you add the functionality presented in this example to the screen_grab example in an artistic way?

Checkout these links on easing technique:

- https://easings.net/
- https://www.joshondesign.com/2013/03/01/improvedEasingEquations
- http://robertpenner.com/easing/



### 5 Bonus - Relaxation | up to 4 pts 

In the code/extra folder there are three beautiful brush examples. Review them and think about an artistic application in one of the previous examples that you have developed or in a new context. Create something beautiful that you like and / or come up with an idea for a sketch that you would like to implement.